GBYTES code is used by many DSS programs to handle binary packing.  There are
versions available for most popular computer systems as well as FORTRAN and C
versions which have application on many computer systems.  Most users should
be able to simply select the version for their system and assemble (compile)
this version and link it to their main program.

The file "gbytes.doc" contains more detailed information on the various
versions of GBYTES in this directory.  Some files were added later and are
not discussed in this document.  "test.for" is a general fortran test
program.  Other files in this directory are versions summarized in the
following list (when labelled by version number, version 1 is recommended):

	 File                   Content
	c.c            C Version
	c32.c          C Version, set up for 32 bit word size, and SUN
			f77 FORTRAN to C linkage.
	c64.c          C Version, set up for 64 bit word size, and Cray
			cft77 FORTRAN to C linkage.
	cdc.v1         Control Data - Version 1
	cdc.v2         Control Data - Version 2
	cdc.v3         Control Data - Version 3 (Cyber205)
	cft77.f        Fortran for Cray running UNICOS (from f77.f)
	cray.v1        Cray - Version 1
	cray.v2        Cray - Version 2
	cray.v3        Cray - Version 3
	dec.v1         DEC/VMS - Version 1
	f77.f          Unix fortran
	f90.f          Unix fortran 90
	f77hp.f        Minor mod to f77.f for HP execution
	fortran.for    Generic FORTRAN with INITAL
	ibm.mac        IBM macros which may be needed on some systems
	ibm.v1         IBM version
	msgbytei.for   Microsoft fortran for PCs
	msgbytes.c     Microsoft c for PCs
	msgbytes.for   General PC fortran
	ncarg.c        Slightly faster C Version but only for 32-bit machines
	rs6000.f       IBM RS6000 with INITAL
	uni.v1         UNIVAC - Version 1
	uni.v2         UNIVAC - Version 2
	unix.f         Unix fortran with INITAL
	swap.for       byte swapping routine for PC
	swapdec.f      byte swapping routine for DEC ALPHA systems

PCs:
The "msgbytei.for" and "msgbytes.c" files are PC versions of GBYTES for
Microsoft fortran and C users. "msgbytes.c" is a minor variation of "c.c" and
"msgbytei.for" is an interface routine which allows fortran programs to call
C subroutines.  The fortran package also contains the SWAP4 routine which can
be used the handle the byte swapping problem on PCs. "msgbytes.for" is a
stand-alone Fortran version of GBYTES and SBYTES for use with Microsoft
Fortran.  It could probably be adapted for other PC compilers.

DEC:
"dec.v1" contains fortran subroutines and macros apropos VMS operating
systems.  ULTRIX and Alpha O.S. can use one of the Unix versions in
conjunction with "swap.for".  The "swap.for" program contains byte swapping
subroutines for 4 and 2 byte swapping.  These are primarily useful on DEC
machines for handling the byte swapping problem.

UNIX:
"c.c" is the general C version and "unix.f" is a FORTRAN version for Sun
Unix.  Note that "unix.f and the generic FORTRAN version require a call to
INITAL to initialize the routines.  Other versions are set up for the
specific systems and do not have the INITAL entry point. "rs6000.f" is a
slightly modified version of "unix.f" which should work on IBM RS6000
stations. "f77.f" has been tested on a Sun, IBM RS6000, and DEC Alpha.
"f77.f" does not require initialization with a call to INITAL and the same
source executes on Sun, IBM RS6000 and DEC Alpha. "ncarg.c" is slightly
faster than "c.c" but only runs on 32-bit archetectures.


Some timing tests were made using "test.for" (expanded to loop 10 times).
All tests were with optimization on (-O option).  The c versions on the DEC
Alpha required the following substitution added after the "#include stdio" to
avoid default 64-bit definition of "long" variables: "define long int".
Times are the sum of user and system time in seconds as produced by csh
"time":

	   Sun SPARC @ 25 MHz  Sun SPARC @ 33 MHz   DEC Alpha OSF/1  IBM RS6000
 Gbytes     Fort.Ver. 1.4     Fort.Ver 1.4,patch 2  Fortran Ver 3.3
 Version     Release 1Mar91      release 20Aug91    release 26Feb93

  c.c            56.8              39.9                6.89

  ncarg.c        45.2              33.2                5.76

  f77.f          53.1              42.8                4.28           8.77
